so the first answers if you guys have
been diagnosed with an actual mental
illness or you really think that you're
mental like you have true like tried and
true depression you should go see a
professional alright so like I can tell
you guys about this stuff but I
ultimately really can I can't treat you
over the internet and nothing I say in
the next 10 minutes is gonna cure you
I'm good
but I'm not that good so PTSD is like a
real thing and like if you really have
it you should go work through it with a
professional because while you can
overcome a lot of people can overcome
parts of mental illness or even overcome
mental illness on their own I think
that's what's happened in the history of
humanity for example like Wims Winston
Churchill and like Abraham Lincoln both
had really bad depression
and they managed to do okay in life so
it's possible with the cool thing about
the roguelike that you live in is
there's a shop and you can just go to
the shop and get some mental health
treatment so go and get some mental
health treatment like that's the first
thing you should do like go and like
work with an individual human being and
this is some Rando on Twitch who's like
talking to 115 people at the same time
it's like a real person who is dedicated
to help you is gonna do way better than
I can ever do unless that dedicated
person is me and you wind up in my
office so go and actually get help so
this is another problem that gamers have
they don't go and get help you guys
watch twitch which I love I'm grateful
you're making me successful fantastic
and at the same time like go and
actually get some help
and like go talk to someone and this is
where so a lot so someone saying that I
don't know you're sounding a lot better
than all the shrinks I've had over the
decades there's a part of me that's
inclined to agree with you because I
think that a lot of mental health
professionals are operating from a model
that's a little bit outdated and this is
where I would say if you want to try to
find like a mental health professional
go see three don't go see one and like
because mental health professionals are
all about fit like it's not about
training
it's not about pedigree it's about fit
so go and find someone who fits with you
but goes because I want you to see three
people then pick the one that you like
the best it's like if you're going out
and buying a car you don't go to a like
a car dealership and just like get the
first car that they have available right
you go and you test drive two or three
things and go and meet three people and
then try to figure out who like who do I
feel like I like and who gets me the
other thing to think a little bit about
is like see if you can find someone on
the younger end so the average like
psychiatrist in in America is like 55 so
I go so go find someone who's played a
video game like start there if you have
a problem game because then they're
gonna understand you a little bit better
and it could help help right I'm not
saying that all like the psychoanalysts
or that like I mean a lot of them
brilliant but like I mean one of them
told me that yeah like I was asking her
like why do people play video games and
her answer is for the same reason they
get tattoos and I was like lady you may
be brilliant and a professor at the
Harvard Medical School but you don't
know what the [ __ ] you're talking about
so go and find someone
that's really what you should do
[Music]
um but I don't think you guys were
looking for that simple of an answer so
dealing with in reducing PTSD let's
start there so the first thing to
understand is that PTSD is actually your
body like learning an inappropriate
response right so if we think about
someone who has like a flashback or let
gets triggered by something like if you
have so I've done a fair amount of work
with veterans and if you have like
better like if you have like someone who
is like in Afghanistan or Iraq and they
like you know got like like a missile
was fired at them and then they like
they have a trigger every time they hear
like a you know muffler expect go bang
or a door slam your body is actually
like has learned from a survival
standpoint that loud sudden sounds mean
death and so when you come back to the
United States your body can't unlearn
that because it's a really important
lesson to learn
right that's how so PTSD the first thing
to understand is that like trauma is
your body trying to adapt to a really
bad situation and so what you have to
teach it how to do is to like unadapted
app to a difference situation so this is
why people will do things like exposure
therapy and stuff like that so a lot of
ways to deal with trauma but I think the
first thing to understand is that it's
an adaptive mechanism which needs to
sort of be under that and beyond that
like if somebody has trauma and you guys
want to like come on stream and talk
about it we can do that otherwise it's
like really hard for me to I mean it's
really hard for me to answer that
question in five minutes I could talk
about it for an hour about trauma or I
could talk to a person but it's hard to
give you a substantive answer in like
five minutes
because it's complicated
the second thing is
you know how do you overcome depression
when you can't get yourself out of bed
and the house and feel hopeless every
day so like I would really think about
getting professional help if that's your
situation
because gamers don't reach out for help
but like sometimes human beings like
human beings are communal we're communal
creatures like we need help from each
other from time to time
and if you need it like if you need help
like go and get help it's not rocket
science like if you're having trouble
getting out of bed everyday like go and
see a professional this is one I would
think about something like medication
because I think you can overcome a lot
of depression with like meditation and
yoga and diet but like all of that stuff
requires you to get out of bed alright
so I recently had someone in my practice
who didn't want to start medication and
they wanted to do yoga and stuff and
that's great so I asked him like how
many times a week were you able to do
yoga and they're saying once a week but
like once a week is not going to cure
your depression like it's just not going
to work the dose is not high enough so I
recommended a start medication now
they're doing yoga everyday the six
months from now we're gonna try it
stopping the medication if they stick
with the yoga and if they stick with the
meditation then we'll see what happens
right so if you're really having trouble
getting out of bed then you should
really the best advice is to see a
professional but I've got two other
points for you the first is think about
your diet so there is a lot of there's a
lot of recent research which shows that
diet is very impactful depression
Ayurveda has been saying this for
thousands of years so first-line
treatment for depression and I revived
as dietary change change their diet
change the diet change the mind
and what that practically means is like
how can I say so there was a recent
study where they took happy mice they
took depressed mice
they took the stool from depressed mice
and did a stool transplant on the happy
mice and the happy mice became depressed
crazy right so stool transplant is a
whole yeah ice-candy be depressed
absolutely
so
fascinating literature which suggests
that like and we're starting to seize
there also studies that show that people
who have depression have certain kinds
of bacteria in their gut at a way higher
level than people who don't have
depression and so I think the way the
reason that I our vet has been curing
depression with diet for thousands of
years is because when you change your
diet you change your gut bacteria and
that's somehow a check affects your
mental health
so if you guys are depressed I'd think a
little bit about what you're eating like
how many processed foods are you eating
are you getting your fruits and veggies
of the day you know cuz all that is
gonna affect in people who like eat
healthy you guys know like when you
start eating healthy you start feeling
better so if you're depressed I'd start
with some basic things like are you
drinking water let's start there
sure go see a professional but at home
start by drinking water
you have soda don't drink soda
yes so like caffeinated stuff is just
gonna throw you out of whack it's gonna
give you an artificial energy boost and
then you're gonna crash start by
drinking water in terms of fruits and
vegetables been in every morning and
pineapple there's literally I'm gonna
find this paper for you because you guys
are gonna you mind has been
[Music]
crap
can't find it too good to pass up
I'm gonna do something really boring on
stream
[Music]
find it
crap
I saw a paper about pineapple and
depression I think I had
we just look
we want to find this paper fruits
you
let me look
here we go found it
[Music]
you
the box
so the papers called so I'm going to
just read from
z-pak
so this is the journal so a lot of this
stuff is not published in the US doesn't
a pineapple a date ruin your stomach
like if you eat too much sure you can
ruin it but I'm going to read you guys
[Music]
so
there are no reports and literature
pertaining to CNS actions of an
anonymous cosmoses fruit in light of the
above the present study was undertaken
to test the antidepressant potential of
pineapples
so they juiced pineapples and
administered at various concentrations
range ranging from 5 to 20%
two mice and then they measure their
depressive activity and what they found
is that the pineapple juice in mice
reduced depression to the same amount as
fluoxetine right so it's not like a
clinical study in human beings do you
got to take that with a grain of salt
what they basically the way they test
depression and mice is they like
um so this is fascinate this is gonna be
fun so the antidepressant activity was
measured using the forced swim test tail
suspension test and reserving induced
hypothermia the efficacy of pineapple
juice was compared with standard
antidepressant agents viz fluoxetine in
in VIP Ramin the results showed that
pineapple juice significantly decreased
in mobility time in both for swim tests
and TST models it also reversed the
hypothermia induced by recipe so what
they do is they like they like force
rats device to swim
and they like depress mice give up and
they stop swimming and then like
undepressed mice will keep fighting
right and if we think about like this
person who's hopeless and can't get out
of bed like they're not fighting they
like give up and they feel hopeless
anyway so I don't know that so there
have been no clinical trials on
pineapple and the effect of depression
I've used it in my practice the decent
results with some people but start by
changing your diet so banana pineapple
start with those make sure your bowel
movements are good go see your primary
care physician you can also get a couple
of things tested like your vitamin D
level so vitamin D has a big correlation
with the depression if you're inside all
the time and you're not getting if
you're not getting your your daily dose
of sunlight chances are that that's
contributing to your low mood
the last thing is people are asking
about pineapple in in pizza and stuff
like eat fresh pineapple not canned
pineapple going buy a pineapple
and then someone else is asking I hear
people talk about things such as LSD and
shrooms to figure out your emotions what
are your thoughts on this I think that
there are a couple of very promising
studies using psychedelics to treat
things like PTSD and treatment
refractory depression I've had some
patients who have used it to treat
addictions and it's gone very well at
the same time I think that things are
very in a very preliminary stage and
there's a huge difference between doing
clinically assisted like psychedelic
assisted psychotherapy under the
guidance of a professional and just
getting high so I don't think just
getting high actually like helps people
I think that using psychoactive
substances like antidepressants if used
correctly and under guidance and
supervision it looks like have a
positive impact for mental health
um so I think the big thing is people
who like to get higher like oh there's
studies to support it so I can get high
whenever I want that's not actually how
it works like I think you need to use
them in sort of a targeted fashion so
there are some places like rehabs and
stuff that I've had a couple of
interesting conversation with medical
directors from like international
institutions that use things like
ibogaine and stuff like that and I've
had like people use ayahuasca and stuff
like that like patients of mine who've
reported good results but a lot of
people also just get high with this [ __ ]
and they don't get better so I think you
have to be careful about okay so it is
8:25 my time and I think we're gonna
have to transition to meditation because
we've been screaming for two and a half
hours and I'm getting tired
[Music]
so if you guys have follow-up questions
post them in the discord
so someone's asking you ask just what
about blood tests so I think the three
things that tend to be correlated with
depression first of all make sure you're
not anemic so check your blood levels
because if you're feeling tired gonna
have like a physiologic cause for
depression would be anemia thyroid
vitamin D and b12 so any of those
deficiencies if you have a thyroid
problem you can be depressed that can
cause depression low b12 is gonna lead
to low energy vitamin D is associated
with depression and then anemia those
are the four things that when I have a
person who clinically comes in those are
the things that I test so talk to your
doctors about that stuff don't go and
just get the lab so like go to your
doctor and say hey I have depression
what do you think about testing these
lab values and see what they say
[Music]